Hello there.
It's a pleasure to welcome you to our program.
We have a few updates to share, and then we'll watch an encouraging interview.
We're excited that two brothers were recently released from prison in Russia after completing
their sentences.
On July 19, 2023, 69-year-old brother Yerey Savalia was released.
He spent over four and a half years behind bars, dozens of brothers and sisters welcomed
him outside the prison.
We're very happy for him and his loved ones.
And on July 26, 2023, brother Sergei Klima was released after some five years in prison.
He was warmly welcomed by his family and friends.
We rejoice with you all.
When Jesus said at Revelation 210, the devil will keep on throwing some of you into prison.
But Jesus also said, do not be afraid.
The watch star of July 2019 stated, when our enemies ban our worship, they hope to make
us afraid to serve Jehovah.
In addition to the ban, they may circulate false stories, send officials to search our
homes, drag us to court, or even in prison, some of us.
They hope that we will be terrified because they managed to put a small number of us in
prison.
Yet, what do we learn from these two dear brothers in Russia?
They have successfully endured their imprisonment and have come out victorious.
Truly Jesus was right when he said, we have no reason to be afraid.
Our brothers and sisters around the world are enjoying the exercise patience convention.
For our young ones, this may be the first convention they'll remember attending in
person.
Let's hear from a few of them.
We picked a hill, my mother convention, and I can see everybody again.
I like being here at the convention because I get to meet the brothers and sisters
who are here.
I like taking pictures with my new friends.
I'm out here to be in the convention today because I could hug my brothers and sisters,
and I also like the songs they relax me a lot.
I have to clean with the friends in our congregation.
It was fun.
My family and friends are all here surrounded me, loving to hope I just like I do.
To me, I like to be here because I can see the videos and also see all of the brothers.
I definitely think being in person is much better.
I learned lots of more things I didn't really focus on when I was at home.
I like coming to the convention because I'm watching it on the TV.
What beautiful comments.
We're so proud of all you parents.
The effort you make to bring your little ones to the convention reminds us of what Joseph
and Mary did.
After after here, they brought Jesus and his siblings to the festival in Jerusalem.
And it was worth the effort, likewise you parents are giving a beautiful gift to your children
by bringing them to the convention.
It must warm Jehovah's heart to see you all in attendance.
On September 1, a new service year begins.
And so does our worldwide campaign to feature the Watch Tsar No. 2 2020 entitled, What Is
God's Kingdom?
Publishers who served as auxiliary pioneers can choose a 15 or 30 hour requirement.
We need the kingdom more than ever before.
And it's a joy for us to share this vital message with our neighbors.
Many congregations will soon be informed of the dates for the 2024 Regional Conventions.
We're pleased to inform you that the theme of the 2024 Convention Program is, Declare
the Good News.
It's based on 1 Corinthians 9-16, which says, Now, if I am declaring the Good News, it's
no reason for me to boast.
For necessity is laid upon me, really, woe to me if I do not declare the Good News.
With so much bad news today, we know you enjoy all three days of this thrilling convention.
From the very first word on Friday.
Speaking of Good News, we rejoiced when 28 of our dear brothers and sisters were released
from prison in Eritrea on December 4, 2020.
They had been in prison for between five and 26 years.
Why were they imprisoned for their Christian neutrality?
Brother Negetti, Teclamarium, was among those targeted for taking a neutral stand.
In 1994, when Negetti was only 21 years old, soldiers abducted him from his home.
He's been a total of 26 years in two prisons along with brothers Paulus Iaso and Isat Mogeth.
Since their release from prison in 2020, Isat was baptized, and the three brothers continued
to serve Jehovah faithfully.
As you watch the following Heart Warming interview, let's notice what helped Negetti
to keep his integrity.
On September 17, 1994, at about 1 a.m., three soldiers came and knocked on our gates.
They did not give me an opportunity to speak or change my clothes.
My mother said to me, take courage to Jehovah's with you.
As long as you remain loyal to him, Jehovah will safeguard you.
My mother kept repeating those words as I was taken away.
Sawa is a military training camp.
It's a huge camp, and within the camp there is a little prison compound.
It's only for a lack of words that we call it a prison.
There's no words for it.
It's not a humane way to treat another human being.
The room, which is made of corrugated metal sheets, during the day it gets extremely hot.
There was no ventilation in the room, no bed.
We slept on the ground.
Food provided by the government was meager, bread, dry lentils, sometimes soup.
In prison, we were tied with ropes and endured cruel treatment by the guards.
Extreme physical beatings and forced labor.
They made us work extra hard in order to tire us out.
So we would give up and do what they wanted us to do.
What I found the most challenging in the 23 years at Sawa
was that even to relieve yourself of your natural body functions,
you were not able to do it when you needed to.
We had to get permission to relieve ourselves.
And there was always a soldier guarding and watching us.
That is the worst kind of life.
We never had a bathroom.
There was never a hope of one day being released,
let alone even going to face a court that was sentenced to us.
They were just waiting for us to go insane,
or to die due to lack of medical treatment.
Something that helped me keep going was a scripture that was the daily text of the day I was arrested.
The scripture was John 1633.
That scripture in part mentions,
in the world you will have tribulation, but take courage.
The scripture was a source of encouragement and comfort not only to us prisoners,
but also to all the brothers who were left behind.
The soldiers took me to the wilderness and told me to dig a hole.
They said before us two choices.
They said, we have tried many things on you, but you didn't change.
The government has decided to execute you.
Put on the military uniform and be soldiers like others.
Or if you continue saying, I belong to God's kingdom
or I belong to the heaven kingdom, you will be put in this hole.
They put me in the hole.
The hole was deep enough for only my neck to be above ground.
Not only was the strong daytime sun beating on my head,
I'm buried in sand that the sun has been beating on all day.
I was sweating and slowly starting to pass out.
There was a car with military personnel traveling from a distance.
They could see a body buried with only his neck above the ground.
This soldier was not from the military camp.
He was simply passing by.
He was a high-ranking military official.
I didn't know him personally.
He didn't know me.
He asked the men, how did this even happen?
Is that even allowed to do this to a human being?
Who gave you the order to bury him alive?
One thing I, and even those who were with me,
learned from this is, when a person goes into prison,
he may feel like he is alone.
But as long as we stay faithful to Jehovah,
we trust him to do something.
I have seen the scripture in Romans chapter eight
from 35 on being fulfilled in our case.
Jehovah helped us.
Truly nothing can separate us from his love.
There was a lady in a gentleman who were working in the prison.
The male was a guard and she was a secretary.
They talked among themselves.
They reason, it looks like the government
is going to kill them.
Why don't we record what we see
and take their story outside?
At least we can say to their families,
they were here and this is what they look like.
So they decided to take a picture
and show it to our families into the rest of the world.
You can see on the picture of Paulos,
his hands are full of mud.
At the time, we were doing manual labor outside,
moving rocks and things.
We didn't want our family members
or our parents who saw the picture
to see a sad and dejected,
but rather we wanted them to know
we're happy to be persecuted for the Christ.
That's why we made an effort to smile.
Throughout our time in prison,
prayer was a tool that really helped us through.
Especially in the first few years,
we had no access to spiritual food, no Bible,
no publications.
The only thing we had was prayer.
One specific thing I remember praying early on
is for Jehovah to let us be free from prison.
But as the years went by,
I personally changed my prayers to help me Jehovah to endure,
help me to be able to put up with the inconveniences
of prison life.
I never anticipated I would be free that day or that year.
I was able to see that Jehovah can deliver his people
out of trial some situations.
Anytime he chooses is the right time.
From those 26 years, I've learned lots of lessons.
I learned that Jehovah listens to our concerns
and to be persecuted for his namesake
is of greater reward than the inconveniences.
We don't know what tomorrow will bring
and what might change.
So there's no good that comes from being afraid of prison
or being afraid of persecution.
We can prepare for persecution.
Jehovah will help us endure any trial.
We just have to ask for his help.
Whatever circumstances, expected or unexpected that arise,
this is a lesson I learned.
Jehovah will help us endure.
Many individuals kept supporting us through letters
and other supplies from everywhere.
The tireless prayers of our brothers and sisters
throughout the world,
the heavy young ones who couldn't even pronounce our names
but were praying for us, strengthened us.
Continue praying because there are many others
who are in various prisons now.
Thank you for sharing your experience with us, Negeri.
It's so encouraging to hear how Jehovah
sustained you despite such brutal treatment.
You are an integrity keeper
and we love you very much.
I know I'm not alone in saying that we
supplicated Jehovah in your behalf many times
over the course of the 26 years
that you and the other brothers were in prison.
And we continue to pray for the 32 brothers and sisters
in Eritrea who are still in prison for their faith.
What are some lessons that we can take away
from Negeri's interview?
Briefly here are three.
Number one, read the daily text every day.
Number two, rely on Jehovah in prayer and number three.
You can be joyful despite persecution.
We're happy to inform you that they full interview
with Negeri will be made available on jw.org
in the future.
As we reflect on Negeri's endurance,
we're reminded of all those who are currently
in during persecution are in prison for their faith.
Do your brothers and sisters in during persecution
in Eritrea, Russia and in all other areas of the world
we are praying for you and we love you very much.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is J.W. Broadcasting.